Hi, and welcome to the H-P-S online jamming client.

On top of the screen there is a row of clickable buttons selecting the
currently visible tab. These can also be reached by the shortcuts as
explained by the help tab.

The icon you select is visible to the other participants on the
server. Currently you can only select among pre-defined icons, but in
the future it may be possible to select a custom on. Selecting an icon
is not mandatory.

Next enter a nickname. The nickname cannot be more than 32 characters
and it is recommended to have a shorter one, because it will be shown
to other participants on the server. The nickname may contain
non-english characters.

If your server requires a password, enter it now. Else leave the field
blank as shown.

At last you need to enter a server location. Currently you need to get
a server location from another person who has already setup a H-P-S
jam server. There is no centralized list of servers currently. If you
install the desktop version of H-P-S jam you can setup your own server
at home. This also requires that you forward some ports from your
broadband connection to the machine running the H-P-S jam server. How
exactly to do this will not be covered in this video.

You can easily test H-P-S jam by connecting the client to
itself. Enter 127.0.0.1 in the line edit and disabling multiport. It
is recommended to set multiport to on, because it improves the overall
audio quality. In this example a H-P-S jam server is already running
at 127.0.0.1.

Now press the connect button. A popup message will appear if not
successful.

Proceeding to the Mixer tab.

Each participant will get its own fader strip. The Balance fader strip
has special meaning. It allows you to get local feedback of your audio
signal to your headphones. The level bar controls how much you will
hear from the server mix and how much you will hear of just
yourself. By pulling the bar to the top you will only hear
yourself. Pulling the balance fader bar to the bottom is the default
and recommended setting. If you want to delay the signal you hear,
press the E-Q delay button. How to use this will not be covered. This
is for advanced users. By pressing I-N-V button you can toggle the
polarity of the audio signal. By default this should not be needed. By
pressing the L-button you can pan the signal towards the left
speaker. By pressing the R-button you can pan the signal towards the
right speaker. The mute-button mutes all your audio being sent to the
server.

The other fader strips start at the word mix and a number. All
controls except pluss, minus, mute and solo are shared for all
participants. That means when you change E-Q delay or press I-N-V or
pan the audio signal or change the gain of the audio signal, all
participants will see and hear the same as you do. If you need to
change the gain for yourself only, then press the pluss and minus
buttons. If you don't want to hear another person, then press the mute
button. If you want to listen to only one person, press the solo
button.

By pressing the fader strip name you can show or hide all controls
locally.

Proceeding to the Lyrics tab. This window will show the current
lyrics, if someone connected to the server is sending lyrics.

Proceeding to the Chat tab. Here you can send lyrics and internal
server chats to other members. How exactly these features work will
not be covered in this video.

Proceeding to the Config tab. The most important settings is selecting
the right audio format. Uplink is what you are transmitting to the
server and downlink is what you are receiving from the server. Two
channel 24-bit audio is the recommended setting. The higher the number
of channels and bits the more capacity the application will use from
your internet connection. Under audio device configuration you can
select which sound device to use. By default H-P-S jam will use the
default system audio output and input device. Under sound effects you
can make chat messages and new connections to the server audible. By
default sound effects are off. The remaining configuration items are
for advanced users and does not need to be changed from the default
values.

Proceeding to the File tab. Under this tab you will find buttons to
activate recording and playback. All recordings are stored in the
system Music folder. If you want to delete a recording it must be done
from the file explorer in your system. To record something press start
under audio recording. When you are done recording press stop. To
playback your recording first press on the filename in the bottom
window, then press the start button under audio playback.

Proceeding to the next tab. Press stats. This screen gives technical
information about the current audio signal.

In the end there is the help tab. Press help. This tab gives you full
overview of all the keyboard shortcuts that are available for H-P-S
jam.

In the end press Server and then press Disconnect.

Hope you will enjoy using H-P-S jam!
